[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello, and welcome.
I'm David Icke.
And today I'm going to look
at the power of the heart.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
You hear people talking
about the heart,
coming from the heart.
What does your heart say?
So what does it mean
by the use of the term
"heart" in this context?
Well, not the physical heart,
although, they are connected,
but we're back to where
the fundamental level
of the human body, the
human form, really lies,
and it's not in the
apparently physical level
but in the human energetic
field, of which the body is
a projection, an extension.
And within the
human energy field
are many lines of
energetic flow.
And energetic flow, what's
another word for energetic?
Information.
Information flow.
What's passing through the human
energy field is information.
In acupuncture,
they base their form
of healing on meridian
lines of energy,
carrying an energy they call qi.
And qi is information.
And when the flow of
information is not
passing through the field in
its most balanced, effective,
powerful form, then that
creates an imbalance,
which we experience as, quote,
"physical" or psychological
disease, disturbance,
disharmony.
So if you look at
a computer, when
something is affecting
the computer, say a virus,
and it affects the
flow of information
through the computer,
the first thing
that people say is, oh,
my computer is slow today.
Then they notice other
malfunctions in the computer.
And this is coming from the fact
that the flow of information
through the computer, and the
way that information is being
decoded, is being affected
by whatever the problem is--
the virus, whatever.
And it's the same in the
human energetic field.
When this information is
not flowing as it should
we go into a state of
imbalance, which is disease,
disharmony, and all the
effects that come from that.
But these energetic
lines are part
of an energetic information
system, an interlevel system,
which connects the human form
and the human energetic field
to other levels of reality,
which are vortexes.
Seven main ones through
the field, but there's
lots of others.
And the lower ones are
connected to our interaction
with Earth, if you like,
and so-called physicality.
And the higher ones
are about taking us
into other levels of reality.
And in the East, they
call these vortex points
chakras or wheels of light.
And the key one, the balance
point of all these chakras,
is here--
the heart chakra, the heart
vortex, I'll call it--
in the center of the chest.
And this is the heart that
I'm talking about when I refer
to the power of the heart.
Where we interact with reality
and how we process information
dictates everything in
terms of our psychology,
in terms of our perceptions.
So people say, what
does your heart say?
And they say, what does
your head tell you?
Because they're acknowledging--
because it's painfully true--
that the way the head processes
information thus sees reality,
and the way the heart does
is very, very different.
There's another one, of course.
What does your gut say?
Down here in the
emotional chakra area.
And the difference between
perceptual domination
by the heart and by the brain
is very, very different.
For instance, the
heart knows why,
because it's connecting
you to levels
of awareness outside of this
perceptually manipulated world
of humanity to higher,
more expanded levels
of consciousness that do know.
This is why you see
the body language when
people have an
intuitive knowing,
and you watch where
their hands go.
I just know, I know.
I just know it.
Where do they go
when they're thinking
and their head is the arbiter
of perception and reality?
They go here.
I'm thinking, I'm thinking.
They don't say, I'm
thinking, I'm thinking.
They say, I'm thinking.
Now, this body
language is telling you
where the information,
thus perception,
is actually coming from.
So the heart connects us
with an expanded level
of awareness, which knows.
And you know, it's connecting
us with a level of awareness
that is beyond human language.
Human language is a way for
the head sense of reality,
within the limited
perceptions of human society,
to communicate, whereas the
heart doesn't need words.
It just knows.
What happens with the head,
which doesn't work on knowing,
it works on thinking,
trying to work it out?
So the reaction of the
head, to I just know,
is, well, why do you know?
Explain to me.
And it starts to see
this list of reasons
why what you know to
do shouldn't happen.
Because this is trying
to work something out,
because it doesn't
know and this does
know, and thus it doesn't
need to work it out.
And so when you start to go
with your intuitive knowing
and let the head become the
servant of the heart instead
of the governor, then your
life changes dramatically.
Mind did, anyway.
Because now you are being guided
by a level of awareness that
is able to see
from a perspective
beyond this manipulated world
of manipulated perception,
whereas the head is in the
world and of the world.
And so its information,
giving its perception,
is all coming from the
world that it's occupying.
It has no other
radar to see what
its processing and
the perceptions
that it's coming to
as a result. It's
not able to see the
context and the perspective
from a greater point of
observation as the heart.
So heart people live different
lives to head people.
And even the head is
in basically two parts,
in terms of the way it
processes information.
You've got the left
side of the brain, which
is dominated by perceiving
everything to be apart
from everything else.
If you are researching
world events, et cetera,
which actually
connect and you only
do it through the left
side of the brain,
you'll never get it, because
the left side of the brain
keeps producing a
perception of everything
apart from everything else.
So events become
random and unconnected
and in and of themselves,
whereas the right side
of the brain is
much more connected
to the intuition of the
heart and is much more
adept at connecting dots
and seeing the unity
that the left side of
the brain can't see.
And the idea through the
connections between the two
hemispheres is that we
are whole-brain people,
and thus we have all
these perspectives
and we form a whole from that in
terms of the way we see things.
What opens the right
side of the brain,
the side of the brain that can
see connections, that perceives
reality in a much more expanded
way, where imagination exists?
Well, how about play?
And we'll remember that.
When kids played, when they
were allowed to play and climb
trees and dress
up and play games
where they imagined themselves
to be someone else doing
something.
What play does-- especially
ad-lib play where kids are just
making it up and using
their imagination--
it's opening the right
side of the brain.
What does music and the arts do?
It's about creativity.
It's about imagination.
It opens up the right
side of the brain.
Worst nightmare for the system.
It wants people here.
Bom, bom, bom.
And the antidote to
this is to open this
and to start letting this be
the arbiter of perception,
connecting with that
level that knows.
And because of its connection
to the right side of the brain
it also has this information,
this intuitive knowing.
It communicates with the brain.
It's also opening the
right side of the brain.
Now, there's an organization
in California called
the Institute of HeartMath.
I've been looking at their
information for a long time.
And what they do is study
the influence of the heart--
I'm talking about
the energetic heart--
on human behavior and human
health, human psychology.
And they've come up with some
very interesting findings
which put into perspective
the true nature of the heart.
And you realize that this is
merely learned intelligence--
often what passes for it--
that comes from the
information that the brain
receives from its environment.
While this is innate
intelligence that
doesn't learn, it knows,
because it's connected
to that level that does know.
So here's a few points that
the Institute of HeartMath
has found in its research.
"Heart rhythms affect
the brain's ability
to process information."
If the heart is not in balance--
what they call coherence--
with the brain, then
the brain starts
to malfunction because
of the heart's influence
on the workings of the brain.
And this cabal that I talk
about that's behind world events
and behind the manipulation
of human perception
knows how this process works.
And therefore, it's targeted
the heart all along.
It wants the heart closed
down, this heart vortex,
so it does not impact
on human perception,
because human perception will
be way different if the heart is
open and influencing the
brain than if it's closed
and the brain is governor
of perception and arbiter
of reality.
"The heart field is the
most powerful in the body."
The electromagnetic field
generated by the heart vortex
is the most powerful
field in the human body.
Because this, in truth, is the
center of human intelligence,
not this.
"The heart has 40,000
sensor neurons."
Neurons, like the
brain, so they call
this process the heart brain.
The heart does not only know,
it has connections to the brain,
also, and operates as a
brain, but a brain that's
coming from a very much
higher, more expanded
level of awareness.
"The heart sends more
information to the brain
than comes the other way."
Because this is the center
of human perception, if only
we realized it.
And because it's the
center of human perception
and the connection out
to expand it awareness,
this is why that which
is manipulating humanity
wants this closed down.
And one of the things they found
is that when the heart field
and the brain field and the
central nervous system field--
because they're all
electromagnetic fields at this
level--
are in coherence and
harmony, that person
goes onto a higher level of
consciousness, awareness.
And when there's
incoherence-- in other words,
the connections are not as they
should be between the central
nervous system, the
brain, and the heart--
the person goes
into a lower level
of awareness and consciousness.
So there you see another
reason why to target the heart
and to close the heart to
try to stop it influencing us
in a harmonious way is to
throw everything out of kilter
and to bring humanity into a
lower level of consciousness
than they normally would be.
And I've read accounts
by therapists-- in fact,
one of them connected to
the Institute of HeartMath,
as I recall--
where they were describing
how when they were working
with a client over the
problems, whatever they were,
they had in their life,
they would do this.
They would put them in a
chair and they'd say to them,
tell me about your
problem from your head.
And they would.
And then symbolically they
would say, change chairs.
Now tell me about the same
problem from your heart.
And what they said
was that you'd
think you were talking to
two totally different people.
And in some ways they were,
because the perspective
of everything that the heart
has from its expanded state
of awareness is massively
different from what
the head has in its
isolated information
source, when the heart's closed.
And in league with
this and this,
fear is the dominant
prison that people live in.
Fear of what other people think.
If you say this, even though
you know it to be true,
what will people say?
If you do this,
what will people do?
Because people talk about
having fear in their heart
and having, for instance,
well, hate in their heart.
Load of rubbish.
You can't have
fear in your heart,
because it's connecting us to
that level of awareness that
knows there's nothing to fear.
This is manipulated
24/7 to fear everything.
That's how we're controlled.
How many people are
not saying and doing
what they know to be
right in the world
today because they fear
the consequences of abuse
and being called this,
that, or the other?
So they self-censor.
This will give you every reason
why you should self-censor,
because it will tell you all the
things that will happen if you
don't.
This, do it anyway,
because to consider
not doing it is to consider not
doing what I know to be right.
So we never do that.
So if we just ponder on how
different the world would be,
even from this perspective of
no fear, it would be dramatic.
There would be no
self-censorship.
silencing of what
needs to be said for fear of
the consequences of saying it.
And then there's another
level of the heart,
which is what we call love.
Love has been completely
misrepresented.
Love is connected
to, "I love you
because I'm attracted to you."
Well, that's all right.
But if what you
call love is only
attraction, like
physical attraction,
well, what happens when that
physical attraction maybe
starts to wane?
What's left?
If nothing else, see
you later or in court.
But if you love
on the level of--
we have to put a word in front
of it to get the real meaning--
of unconditional love--
I love you because you exist not
because of this list of things
you have to do so I love you.
I love you because you are.
That even when physical
attraction wanes,
the love connection
is still there.
And because this knows, because
of what it's connected to,
that human division
is an illusion,
that all the labels we give
ourselves and we're given
are only names for brief
transitory experiences
that will soon be
over as we continue
our exploration of
forever, forever
at the end of this human life.
It knows we're all connected.
It knows these fault lines--
of division, of race,
and sexuality, and culture,
and income bracket--
are all illusory nonsense.
It sees, knows, that we are
all points of attention--
unique points of attention--
within the same flow
of infinite awareness.
And thus it understands
the unity of everything.
It understands the transitory
nature of human experience.
And it doesn't get pulled into
hate because of some action
by some perceived
self-identified label
with another different
self-identified label.
It just shakes its head and sees
everything that's connected.
I love you anyway.
And from the heart
comes empathy--
being able to put
yourself in the feelings
and the consequences that
you create for other people
and feel how they must
be feeling because
of your impact upon them.
And empathy is the failsafe
mechanism, I call it,
of human society.
Because if you have
empathy, the fact
that you could feel what you are
making other people experience
will limit the extremes
of what you will do.
Take away empathy, there are
no consequences emotionally,
so there are no limits to what
you will do to other people.
And we call that
state a psychopath.
So the heart is an extraordinary
center of innate intelligence.
And if this was the arbiter of
our perception and the arbiter
of our into action with each
other and our understanding
of each other and our
love of each other--
from that perspective
I'm talking about--
the world that we see today
would be a figment of history,
just disappearing as
another world emerges.
Because this world, what
we call human society,
is merely the sum total
of human perception
which becomes the sum
total of human behavior.
When this is the
governor, we see the world
that we have today.
When this becomes the
governor, the arbiter
of reality and interaction, we
see a totally different world.
And here's a quote
from the mystic
known as Osho, who came out--
he's now continuing his
explanation of forever,
forever--
He came out with some
very, very profound quotes.
And here's one.
"Our universities, our
colleges, our schools,
are all destroying humanity.
They think they are
serving, but they are simply
fooling themselves.
Unless man becomes balanced,
unless the heart and head
both grow, man will
remain in misery,
and the misery
will go on growing.
As we become more
and more oblivious
of the existence
of the heart, we
become more and more miserable.
We are creating hell
on Earth, and we will
create more and more of it.
Paradise belongs to the heart.
But this is what has
happened," he said,
"the heart is
completely forgotten,"
thus, as I would put
it, has lost its impact
on human perception, thus human
behavior, thus human society.
"Nobody understands
that language anymore.
We understand logic, we
don't understand love.
We understand mathematics,
we don't understand music.
We become more and more
accustomed to the ways
of the world, and
nobody seems to have
the guts to move into unknown
paths, the unknown labyrinths
of love, of the heart."
And he is absolutely right.
Because this has been
systematically closed--
not in everybody, of course
not, but overwhelmingly
in terms of its influence
on perception and behavior.
The world has become
a manifestation
of the head and the gut, which
are different states often--
not least the head--
of ignorance.
And I can tell you my own
experience in relation to this.
I reached a point,
long time ago now,
where this harmony came
together and the war stopped.
And so when my heart
now, my knowing says,
I need to do this.
This says, OK, let's go.
It's and an incredible
way of living your life,
in my experience, anyway.
It brings joy.
And it brings what
we call achievement.
Because this knows, and
it will guide you always
where you need to go
to know even more.
That's been my
experience in 30 years,
and I'm just passing it on now.
If people can get out of this
into this, their life changes.
And if enough of us do
it, human society changes.
Yeah, it's that simple.
See you next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]